<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!-- Define an entity for your application if it is not part of KDE
       CVS -->
  <!ENTITY kmyapplication "<application>sscd</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kmyapplication;"><!-- replace kmyapplication here
                                            do *not* replace kappname-->
  <!ENTITY package "kde-module"><!-- kdebase, kdeadmin, etc.  Leave
                                     this unchanged if your
                                     application is not maintained in KDE CVS -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> <!-- ONLY If you are writing non-English
                                     original documentation, change
                                     the language here -->

  <!-- Do not define any other entities; instead, use the entities
       from entities/general.entities and $LANG/user.entities. -->
]>
<!-- kdoctemplate v0.9 January 10 2003
     Changes to comments to clarify entity usage January 10 2003
     Minor update to "Credits and Licenses" section on August 24, 2000
     Removed "Revision history" section on 22 January 2001
     Changed to Installation/Help menu entities 18 October 2001
     Other minor cleanup and changes 18 October 2001
     FPI change and minor changes November 2002 -->

<!--
This template was designed by: David Rugge davidrugge@mindspring.com
with lots of help from: Eric Bischoff ebisch@cybercable.tm.fr
and Frederik Fouvry fouvry@sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.de
of the KDE DocBook team.

You may freely use this template for writing any sort of KDE documentation.
If you have any changes or improvements, please let us know.

Remember:
- in XML, the case of the <tags> and attributes is relevant ;
- also, quote all attributes.

Please don't forget to remove all these comments in your final documentation,
thanks ;-).
-->

<!-- ................................................................ -->

<!-- The language must NOT be changed here. -->
<!-- If you are writing original documentation in a language other -->
<!-- than English, change the language above ONLY, not here -->
<book id="sscd" lang="&language;">

<!-- This header contains all of the meta-information for the document such
as Authors, publish date, the abstract, and Keywords -->

<bookinfo>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->


<!-- Date and version information of the application
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (YYYY-MM-DD) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->

<date>2010-08-11</date>
<releaseinfo>0.3</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
&kmyapplication; is the server component of the ssc sample acquisition tool. 
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdeutils</keyword>
<keyword>Kapp</keyword>
<keyword>simon</keyword>
<keyword>sample</keyword>
<keyword>speech</keyword>
<keyword>voice</keyword>
<keyword>acquisition</keyword>
<keyword>recording</keyword>
<keyword>accessibility</keyword>
</keywordset>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<copyright>
<year>2009-2010</year>
<holder>Peter Grasch</holder>
</copyright>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<personname>
<firstname>Peter</firstname>
<othername>H.</othername>
<surname>Grasch</surname>
</personname>
<email>peter.grasch@bedahr.org</email>
</author>
</authorgroup>


<title>The &kmyapplication; Handbook</title>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
  &kmyapplication; is the server component of the ssc sample acquisition tool.
</para>
<para>
  It manages speaker data (users, institutions) as well as sample meta data using a database and stores the samples.
</para>
<para>
  It receives input from the ssc client(s) which connect to the server using TCP/IP.
</para>

<para>For more information on the general architecture of the simon suite please see the <ulink url="help:/simon/overview.html#architecture">simon manual</ulink>. For information about the ssc client, please refer to the <ulink url="help:/ssc">ssc manual</ulink>.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kapp">
<title>Using &kmyapplication;</title>

<para>&kmyapplication; is a command line application which does not have any user interface. There are no special launch parameters.</para>


<sect1 id="sscd_folder">
  <title>Base folder</title>
  <para>The base folder of &kmyapplication; contains the configuration file <filename>sscd.conf</filename> and an error log in case something goes wrong. This folder also contains the <filename>samples</filename> subfolder where all the samples are stored.</para>

<para>The location of the sscd folder depends on your operating system:

<table frame='all'><title>ssc base folder</title>
<tgroup cols='2' align='left' colsep='1' rowsep='1'>
<colspec colname='c1'/>
<colspec colname='c2'/>
<thead>
<row>
  <entry>Microsoft Windows</entry>
  <entry>GNU/Linux</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
  <entry><filename>Installation folder of sscd.exe (usually: C:\Program Files\simon 0.3\bin\sscd.exe</filename>)</entry>
  <entry><filename>/usr/share/sscd</filename></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuration">
  <title>Configuration</title>

  <para>There is no graphical configuration of sscd, but there is a configuration file (<filename>sscd.conf</filename>) stored in the <link linkend="sscd_folder">sscd folder</link>.</para>

  <para>The default configuration file is heavily commented and should be self-explanatory.</para>

  <para>Before running sscd, you will want to at least change the DatabaseUser and DatabasePassword entry of the configuration file. See <link linkend="database">the database section</link> for more information.</para>

  <screen>
; This is an example config file and displays the built-in defaults
; sscd will look for this file in:
; Linux:
;    /usr/share/sscd/sscd.conf
; Windows:
;    &lt;sscd installation path&gt;\sscd.conf

[General]
; Change this to use a different database; Because sscd uses db-specific
; commands in places, only QMYSQL is supported at the moment.
; Support for other DBMS can be added extremely easily, though so please
; feel free to request support through support@simon-listens.org
DatabaseType=QMYSQL

; The host of the DBMS
DatabaseHost=127.0.0.1

; The port of the DBMS; 3306 is the default port of MySQL
DatabasePort=3306

; The database to use; Make sure that you run the supplied create script
; before you use sscd
DatabaseName=ssc

; The username to use when connecting to the DBMS
DatabaseUser=sscuser

; Database password. The default one will obviously not work in most cases
DatabasePassword=CHANGE ME NOW

; Database options. Refer to Qts documentation of QSqlDatabase for details
DatabaseOptions=MYSQL_OPT_RECONNECT=1

; The port the server will listen to; Default: 4440
Port=4440

; Bind the server to a specific client IP; If this is true, the server
; will ignore requests from all but the BoundHost (see below)
Bind=false

; IP of the bound host (if Bind is active)
BindHost=127.0.0.1
  </screen>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="database">
  <title>Database</title>

  <para>&kmyapplication; stores the speaker and sample data (but not the samples themselves) in a database. At the moment, only MySQL databases are fully supported. Adding support for a new database is trivial, though. Contact the <ulink url="mailto:support@simon-listens.org">simon team</ulink> if you want to help.</para>

  <para>To set up the required tables &kmyapplication; ships with an appropriate create script <filename>mysql_create_script.sql</filename> installed in the <link linkend="sscd_folder">base folder</link> of &kmyapplication;.</para>


  <para>Database errors can be found in the <filename>error.log</filename> which also resides in the base folder.</para>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="extracting_samples">
  <title>Extracting collected samples</title>

  <para>To build models using the samples collected with &kmyapplication; you first have to extract them from the database.</para>

  <warning>
    <para>
      Because &kmyapplication; is designed for large scale sample acquisition this is not end user friendly. The documentation below is mainly provided for technically skilled professionals.
    </para>
    <para>
      Most of the scripts below require the GNU tools (usually available by default on GNU/Linux).
    </para>
  </warning>

  <para>You can use the following query (minor adjustments will be necessary depending on what samples exactly you need):

    <screen>
use ssc;

select s.Path, s.Prompt
  from Sample s inner join User u
    on s.UserId = u.UserId inner join UserInInstitution uii
      on u.UserId = uii.UserId inner join SampleType st
        on s.TypeId = st.SampleTypeId inner join Microphone m
          on m.MicrophoneId = s.MicrophoneId
  WHERE st.ExactlyRepeated=1 and uii.InstitutionId = 3
    and (m.MicrophoneId = 1);
    </screen>
  </para>

  <para>This query will list all samples from institution 3 that were recorded with microphone 1.</para>

  <para>You can then for example use this script to create a prompts file:
    <screen>
      #!/bin/bash
      sed '1d' $1 > temp_out
      sed -e 's/\\\\/\//g' -e 's/.*Samples\///g' -e 's/\.wav\t/ /' temp_out > $1
      rm temp_out
    </screen>
  </para>

  <para>
    This prompts file can then be <ulink url="help:/simon/training.html#import_training-data">imported in simon</ulink>.
  </para>

  <para>
    To build the appropriate dictionary to compile the model you might also want to list all the sentences contained in the prompts file. You can do this with this script:
    <screen>
      #!/bin/bash
      cat $1 | sed -e 's/[0-9\/]* //' | sort | uniq
    </screen>
  </para>
</sect1>
</chapter>


<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<para>
In an effort to keep this section always up-to-date it is available at our <ulink url="http://userbase.kde.org/Simon/Troubleshooting_Guide">online wiki</ulink>.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kmyapplication;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 2008-2010 Peter Grasch <email>peter.grasch@bedahr.org</email>
</para>

<para>
Documentation Copyright &copy; 2009-2010 Peter Grasch <email>peter.grasch@bedahr.org</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->

&underGPL;           <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
<para>Please see our <ulink url="http://www.simon-listens.org/wiki/index.php/English:_Setup">wiki</ulink> for install instructions.</para>
</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->
